LONDON (AP) _ An influential lawmaker from the governing Labor Party on Saturday backed Spanish requests to question former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet, in London for back surgery, on allegations of genocide and terrorism. 	 ''
There've been something like a total of 3,197 cases'' of murder and torture during Pinochet's 1973-90 regime, Ann Clywd said in an interview with British Broadcasting Corp. radio.
``In the course of a long search by their relatives, the remains of some of the disappeared have been discovered in unmarked graves,'' said Ms. Clywd, who chairs an all-party committee of lawmakers on human rights.
``And hundreds of former detainees have made statements confirming that the disappeared were held in detention centers.''
``Clearly, the Spanish authorities have every right to try and investigate these matters further.''
Pinochet, 82, who underwent surgery for a herniated disc a week ago, was reported to have left London Bridge Hospital earlier Wednesday.
British authorities have declined to comment on his whereabouts or the Spanish requests.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday.
Another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a request to question Pinochet a day earlier.
In 1996, Castellon opened his probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet, who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
(scl)

LONDON (AP) _ British police said Saturday they have arrested former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet on allegations of murdering Spanish citizens during his years in power.
Pinochet, 82, in London for surgery, was held Friday night after British authorities received a Spanish extradition warrant, a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said.
The warrant charges that between Sept. 11 1973, the year he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983, Pinochet murdered Spanish citizens in Chile, the spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously.
The spokeswoman refused to confirm Pinochet's whereabouts, but Pinochet's press secretary in Santiago said he being held in the London clinic where he underwent surgery for a herniated disc on Oct. 9.
No hearing date has been set.
Spanish Foreign Minister Abel Matutes, attending the Ibero American summit in Porto, Portugal, said his government ``respects the decisions taken by courts.''
But Chilean Ambassador to London, Mario Artaza, said he will seek the release of Pinochet _ ``what we must do is make it clear that Mr. Pinochet is a senator, who travels with a diplomatic passport,'' Artaza said.
The government has previously said that Chile does not recognize the authority of foreign courts over situations which occurred in Chile.
Pinochet, who turns 83 next month, was reported to have left London Bridge Hospital on Wednesday.
But his press secretary Fernando Martinez said he was at the clinic Friday night when police came for him.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday.
Another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a request to question Pinochet a day earlier.
Castellon's probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime began in 1996.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet is implicated in Garzon's probe through his involvement in ``Operation Condor,'' in which military regimes in Chile, Argentina and Uruguay coordinated anti-leftist campaigns 	 The judges' petitions are based on the European Convention on Terrorism which requires signatories to cooperate with each others' judicial processes in cases of terrorism, according to Juan Garces, a lawyer involved in the Spanish investigation into human rights violations in Chile.
Pinochet, who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
(scl)

LONDON (AP) _ Eight years after his turbulent regime ended, former Chilean strongman Gen. Augusto Pinochet is being called to account by Spanish authorities for the deaths, detention and torture of political opponents.
Responding to a Spanish extradition warrant, British police announced Saturday they have arrested Pinochet on allegations that he murdered an unidentified number of Spaniards in Chile between Sept. 11, 1973, the year he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983.
No reason for the dates was given.
Chile said it would protest to British authorities, arguing that the 82-year-old senator-for-life has diplomatic immunity.
But Britain said Pinochet did not have diplomatic immunity.
Prime Minister Tony Blair's office said it was ``a matter for the magistrates and the police.''
Pinochet, whose ruthless regime was widely criticized for its human rights record, was recovering from surgery in a London clinic when he was held Friday night.
No hearing date has been set.
Scotland Yard refused to confirm Pinochet's whereabouts, but his Santiago spokesman Fernando Martinez said he was in a London clinic when police came for him.
A regular visitor to Britain, Pinochet underwent surgery Oct. 9 for a herniated disc, a spinal disorder which has given him pain and hampered his walking in recent months.
In a statement issued in Porto, Portugal, where President Eduardo Frei is attending the Ibero American summit, the Chilean government said it is ``filing a formal protest with the British government for what it considers a violation of the diplomatic immunity which Sen. Pinochet enjoys.''
The statement, read by acting foreign minister Mariano Fernandez, demanded ``that steps be taken to allow an early end of this situation.''
Chile has previously said it does not recognize the authority of foreign courts over incidents within Chile.
Spanish Foreign Minister Abel Matutes, also attending the Ibero American summit, said his government ``respects the decisions taken by courts.''
British law recognizes two types of immunity: state immunity, which covers heads of state and government members on official visits, and diplomatic immunity for persons accredited as diplomats.
Jeremy Corbyn, a lawmaker from Britain's governing Labor Party, applauded the arrest.
``It will be the first time this ghastly dictator has faced questions,'' he told Sky television.
``He is one of the great murderers of this century.''
Richard Bunting of the human rights group Amnesty International, which has frequently criticized Pinochet, said the British government was ``under obligation to take legal action'' against him.
It was not immediately clear which clinic was treating Pinochet, who is 83 next week.
Staff at the London Bridge Hospital, where he reportedly had surgery, refused comment.
He has a pacemaker and hearing aid, but is generally in good health.
Baltasar Garzon, one of two Spanish magistrates handling probes into human rights violations in Chile and Argentina, filed a request to question Pinochet on Wednesday, a day after another judge, Manuel Garcia Castellon, filed a similar petition.
Castellon's probe into murder, torture and disappearances in Chile during Pinochet's regime began in 1996.
Garzon is also investigating the disappearance of hundreds of Spanish citizens in Argentina during the 1976-83 military dictatorships.
Pinochet is implicated in Garzon's probe through his involvement in ``Operation Condor,'' in which military regimes in Chile, Argentina and Uruguay coordinated anti-leftist campaigns 	 Pinochet, the son of a customs clerk who ousted elected President Salvador Allende in a bloody 1973 coup, remained commander-in-chief of the Chilean army until March, when he was sworn in as a senator-for-life, a post established for him in a constitution drafted by his regime.
While in power he also pushed through an amnesty covering crimes committed before 1978, when most of his human rights abuses allegedly took place.
One official report says 3,197 political opponents died during his term and 1,102 people remain unaccounted for after being detained by his security agents.
(scl-rb)

LONDON (AP) _ Former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet has been arrested by British police on a Spanish extradition warrant, despite protests from Chile that he is entitled to diplomatic immunity.
Two Spanish judges are seeking to question Pinochet about the slayings of an unspecified number of Spaniards in Chile between Sept. 11, 1973, the date he seized power, and Dec. 31, 1983.
No reason for the dates was given.
Chile said, graf 3 pvs

OPORTO, Portugal (AP) _ President Fidel Castro said Sunday he disagreed with the arrest in London of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, calling it a case of ``international meddling.''
Castro compared the action with the establishment in Rome in August of an International Criminal Court, a move Cuba has expressed reservations about.
``It seems to me that what has happened there (in London) is universal meddling,'' Castro told reporters covering the Ibero-American summit being held here Sunday.
Castro had just finished breakfast with King Juan Carlos of Spain in a city hotel.
He said the case seemed to be ``unprecedented and unusual.''
Pinochet, 82, was placed under arrest in London Friday by British police acting on a warrant issued by a Spanish judge.
The judge is probing Pinochet's role in the death of Spaniards in Chile under his rule in the 1970s and 80s.
Castro, Latin America's only remaining authoritarian leader, said he lacked details on the case against Pinochet, but said he thought it placed the government of Chile and President Eduardo Frei in an uncomfortable position while Frei is attending the summit.
Castro said the International Criminal Court ought to be independent of the U.N. Security Council, because ``we already know who commands there,'' an obvious reference to the United States.
The United States was one of only seven countries that voted against creating the court.
``The (Pinochet) case is serious ... the problem is delicate'' and the reactions of the Chilean Parliament and armed forces bear watching, Castro said.
He expressed surprise that the British had arrested Pinochet, especially since he had provided support for England during its 1982 war with Argentina over the Malvina or Falkland Islands.
Although Chile maintained neutrality during the war, it was accused of providing military intelligence to the British.
Castro joked that he would have thought police could have waited another 24 hours to avoid having the arrest of Pinochet overshadow the summit being held here.
``Now they are talking about the arrest of Pinochet instead of the summit,'' he said.
Pinochet left government in 1990, but remained as army chief until March when he became a senator-for-life.
The Chilean government has protested Pinochet's arrest, insisting that as a senator he was traveling on a diplomatic passport and had immunity from arrest.
(vs/krt)

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina _ Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who ruled Chile as a despot for 17 years, has been arrested in London after Spain asked that he be extradited for the presumed murders of hundreds of Chilean and Spanish citizens, the British authorities announced Saturday.
The Chilean government immediately demanded his release, arguing that he has diplomatic immunity since he sits in the Chilean Senate.
But so far the British and Spanish authorities have shrugged off the protests, setting up what promises to be a legal struggle that could have wide implications for the prosecution of alleged human rights violators under international law.
Pinochet, who is 82 and who stepped down as commander in chief of the Chilean military five months ago, was arrested by the British police on Friday night, little more than a week after he arrived in London for surgery on a herniated disc.
The warrant said the general was wanted for questioning for ``crimes of genocide and terrorism that includes murder.''
British authorities refused to say where Pinochet is being held; nor did they set a date for when he would be questioned.
Ever since he led a violent coup to overthrow Salvador Allende Gossens, the elected Socialist president in 1973, Pinochet has been a political icon throughout Latin America, representing the excesses of a long period of military rule and U.S. support for right-wing strongmen who opposed Communism.
An estimated 3,000 Chileans were shot in the streets or ``disappeared'' during his rule, and a senior member of his regime was imprisoned under U.S. pressure for the murder of former Foreign Minister Orlando Letelier in Washington in 1976.
Pinochet cast a long and wide shadow in economic affairs as well, launching a privatized social security system and other free market policies that set examples that are still models from Argentina to Mexico.
Under a Constitution that he guided to enactment, Pinochet was able to become a senator for life upon his retirement from the military, a position that afforded him continued political influence and immunity from prosecution.
Relatives of disappeared people and political opponents have filed several lawsuits in Chile seeking to take away his immunity, but they are given little chance of success.
To this day, Chileans are deeply divided in their opinion of the Pinochet legacy, with approximately a third of the country viewing him as a hero, another third viewing him as a villain and the rest voicing ambiguous opinions to pollsters.
A senior Spanish judicial official said Saturday that Judge Baltasar Garzon issued the international arrest warrant against Pinochet on Friday after Interpol warned that the former dictator was about to be released from the hospital and would probably leave London.
A British Foreign Office spokesman, who declined to be identified by name, said the general's arrest was ``a judicial matter, one for the police and the magistrates.''
But he said ``one point that does fall to us, he does not have diplomatic immunity in this country.''
The spokesman declined any further comment.
An official who spoke on condition of anonymity said Pinochet had been arrested ``at the direct, specific request of the Spanish authorities.''
Spanish lawyers said the request for Pinochet's extradition had been sent to Scotland Yard through Interpol.
The request was based on the European Convention on Terrorism, which requires members to help one another in matters related to terrorism.
The initial warrant is based on a single case of the kidnapping and disappearance in 1976 of a Chilean leftist leader, Edgaro Henriquez, 35.
<ANNOTATION> (STORY CAN END HERE.
OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) </ANNOTATION> nn The Spanish judicial official said that Garzon is planning on Monday to send to British authorities the names of 78 other people of various nationalities who were also kidnapped in Chile and taken to Argentina where they disappeared between 1976 and 1983.
He will also seek the general's extradition to Spain.
Garzon has also demanded the extradition of various former Argentina junta rulers, but Argentina has refused to abide by warrants.
The focus of his investigation is the so-called Condor Plan, in which the military juntas of various Latin American countries allegedly collaborated to eliminate their enemies.
Both President Eduardo Frei of Chile and President Eduardo Menem of Argentina have resisted the Spanish legal motions, arguing that they infringe on their nations' sovereignty.
Amnesty International, the human rights group long critical of Pinochet, earlier this week urged the British government to assist the Spanish judges in their prosecution of the former dictator.
In a statement, the group said, ``This would be a clear manifestation of the British government's commitment to human rights.''
Human rights and international law experts expressed enthusiastic support Saturday for the British arrest, and said it could have wide implications.
Legal experts noted that since the Nuremberg trials after World War II, all countries theoretically have been obliged to take responsibility for crimes against humanity, thereby denying safe haven to promoters of international crimes like genocide.
However, suspected war criminals, once granted amnesties in their own countries, have usually been safe from prosecution when they traveled abroad.
Juan Garces, a Spanish lawyer representing 4,000 victims of the Pinochet regime, said the case against the general was based on international legal principles that there is no immunity for those responsible for crimes against humanity, even if they served as heads of state.
Diane Orentlicher, a law professor and director of the War Crimes Research Office at American University in Washington, said the British and Spanish actions put ``teeth into the legal principle'' that abusers of human rights are international criminals.
``The central point of all of this is that crimes against humanity transcend the concerns of the countries where the abuses are committed,'' she said.
``In theory, there should be no safe haven for world class criminals, but the central problem has been the enforcement of the law depends on the mobilization of the world's consciousness.''
Chile said on Saturday that it would file a formal protest.
``What we must do is make clear that Mr. Pinochet is a senator who travels with a diplomatic passport,'' said Mario Artaza, Chile's ambassador to London, in a radio interview Saturday.
Artaza added that Pinochet would not be able testify any time soon because he was recuperating from painful surgery.
Chilean officials who served in the Pinochet government have so far been left virtually untouched for their alleged crimes because the armed forces still command broad political influence.
In neighboring Argentina, several military officials served prison sentences in the 1980s, but they were released under amnesty laws enacted in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
However, retired Gen. Jorge Videla, who led one of the Argentine juntas that ruled while Pinochet was in power in Chile, is currently under house arrest as a judge investigates his alleged role in kidnapping newborn children of political prisoners so they might be adopted by military families.

LONDON _ Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator arrested here at the request of a Spanish judge, remained sequestered under police guard Sunday, awaiting a potentially devastating court hearing to weigh his extradition on charges of genocide, terrorism and murder.
British officials have not said where Pinochet is, but scores of Chilean emigres gathered Sunday outside the upscale London Clinic where the 82-year-old general underwent back surgery Oct. 9.
The demonstrators jubilantly demanded Pinochet's extradition to Spain and held up photographs of some of the ``disappeared'' among the 3,000 people shot or abducted during his 17-year dictatorship, from 1973 to 1990.
Pinochet's detention late Friday has left Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor government seemingly embarrassed by the diplomatic implications of an arrest that has enraged the government of Chile _ which Britain regards as an ally _ and confronted European officials with uncomfortable implications for their handling of human rights violators from closer to home.
``What goes for Gen. Pinochet also goes for all the Mladics and Karadzics who are still in hiding and will be, one day or another, arrested and judged for their crimes,'' said Jacques Poos, the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, referring to the Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, Bosnian Serb leaders indicted on war crimes charges by the United Nations War Crime Tribunal in The Hague.
Both have consistently eluded arrest.
Britain, however, seemed uncomfortable about turning the general's detention into any new crusade.
Neither Blair nor Foreign Secretary Robin Cook made public statements about the arrest, sheltering behind official statements that it was purely a ``judicial matter.''
The arrest has reopened a traditional divide between Labor and the opposition Tories who, while in office until 1997, regularly allowed Pinochet to enter Britain without fanfare either for medical treatment or to pursue arms deals with British defense contractors.
Blair's government had been under strong pressure from Labor supporters and human rights groups to display its public commitment to ethical foreign policies by acting against Pinochet.
Word of his presence here produced an outcry in newspapers generally supportive of Labor and among Labor legislators.
Indeed, Trade Minister Peter Mandelson termed Pinochet a ``brutal dictator'' in a television interview Sunday and said his claim of diplomatic immunity against arrest ``for most people in this country would be pretty gut-wrenching stuff.''
But Michael Howard, a former Tory Interior Minister who took no action during Pinochet's earlier visits, said the arrest reflected the behavior of ``a very arrogant government'' that may be ``displaying its utter contempt for our legal system and for the rule of law'' to appease a political constituency.
Pinochet was placed under arrest after a senior Spanish judge, Baltasar Garzon, sent a request to detain him in connection with possible extradition hearings.
The warrant on which he was arrested alleges that Pinochet ``did murder Spanish citizens in Chile within the jurisdiction of the government of Spain,'' and was guilty of ``crimes of genocide and terrorism that includes murder.''
Garzon and a Spanish colleague, Judge Manuel Garcia Castellon, are expected to travel to London to question him, possibly in the next few days.
Chile has protested the arrest, insisting that, as a senator for life, Pinochet enjoyed diplomatic immunity under his diplomatic passport.
But, said Alun Michael, a senior official in the Home Office, ``a diplomatic passport does not, of course, guarantee diplomatic immunity.''
British officials deny that the detention was politically inspired.
Michael said Sunday that ``there has been no intervention which has been inappropriate at all.''
Under British law, the authorities must decide within 40 days whether to proceed with extradition.
The first step is a magistrates' court hearing where Pinochet's accusers set out their reasons for extradition.
No date for this hearing has been set.
Then, Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, must decide whether to order the extradition.

PARIS _ A stubbornly independent judge who more than once has challenged the Spanish government, Baltasar Garzon was ridiculed when he first set out to pursue the most notorious right-wing generals in South America for human rights crimes committed in the 1970s and '80s, offenses for which they had already been granted amnesty at home.
Now, after Garzon succeeded in getting Scotland Yard to arrest Chile's former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the Spanish magistrate has suddenly moved closer to creating an important legal precedent, one that could make the retirement of former dictators decidedly uncomfortable.
While this is certainly his most spectacular strike, the Madrid judge has long been at the center of controversy.
Even before taking on the cases against former military rulers in Argentina as well as Chile, he had earned a high profile in Spain by investigating some of the country's most explosive issues, among them drug trafficking, Basque terrorism and government corruption.
The judge, despite his professorial look, lives a tense life and has said that he had to grow used to living with death threats.
He moves around with bodyguards and works under tight security in the offices of the Madrid special criminal tribunal, known as the National Court.
His critics have often accused him of self-promotion because he takes on major cases and frequently appears on the front pages of newspapers.
But Garzon, in a recent interview, responded that he is determined to expose crime in high places too easily overlooked and that in talking to the media he helps to prevent sensitive cases from being covered up.
His involvement with South America began in 1996 when he opened a criminal investigation after several Spanish legal associations asked him to look into the torture, disappearance and killing of Spanish citizens in Argentina during that country's military rule from 1976 to 1983.
Garzon, who works as an investigating magistrate rather than a judge on the bench, took more than five months to conclude that a Spanish court could have jurisdiction in the case.
He argued that, under Spanish and international law, specifically under the Geneva Conventions, serious crimes involving human rights can be tried anywhere and are not subject to any time limit.
Garzon felt encouraged not only by support from international legal scholars and a U.N. committee, but also by the new efforts of Western powers to insure trials and punishment for those responsible for grave human rights violations, including genocide, in Rwanda and the Balkans.
Soon, he brought charges against 110 former and active military and police officers in Argentina and issued international arrest warrants against at least 11 senior Argentine military officers, including a former president, Gen. Leopoldo Galtieri.
That meant countries that are part of the Interpol agreement would have to arrest the officers if they traveled outside Argentina.
Following the case against Argentina's security forces, another judge serving in the same court as Garzon opened an investigation into the torture and killing of Spaniards in Chile during the 17-year Pinochet dictatorship that ended in 1990.
Garzon is now involved in both countries, and the cases have widened to embrace not just the killing of Spaniards but victims of other nationalities.
<ANNOTATION> (STORY CAN END HERE.
OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) </ANNOTATION> Since the case against Pinochet began at Madrid's National Court, the United States has agreed to provide the Spanish judges with documents related to human rights violations under the Pinochet regime.
The Madrid court has charged Pinochet and other members of the Chilean high command with crimes against humanity, including genocide and terrorism, involving the deaths of more than 4,000 people.
Both extraterritorial investigations have drawn scorn from the civilian governments in Argentina and Chile, which have argued that the accused military officers have all benefited from amnesties and that no foreign judge can alter that.
Spain's conservative prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar, has also told Buenos Aires and Santiago that he disapproves of the investigations, but that he cannot stop them.
He and other government officials have complained that the judge's activities are complicating their diplomatic relations and risk affecting Madrid's current strategy of expanding its business investments in Argentina and Chile.
But the judges have continued to press forward.
On Oct. 14, learning that Pinochet had entered Britain for medical treatment, Garzon asked British judicial authorities to hold the former dictator until Spanish investigators could interrogate him about a series of crimes, particularly those committed under a so-called Operation Condor in which Argentina and Chile cooperated in torturing and killing several hundred of their political opponents.
British authorities informed Garzon that Pinochet would be released from the hospital over the weekend and that they could not legally detain him.
Garzon then issued an arrest warrant against Pinochet, specifically linking him to the case of a Chilean citizen, Edgardo Henriquez, who in April 1976 was kidnapped and tortured in Argentina and soon after handed over to the Chilean secret police, then under Pinochet's command.
He has since been missing.
On Monday, Garzon will reportedly broaden the arrest warrant by adding the names of close to 80 additional victims, who were also kidnapped in Argentina and handed over to the Chilean secret police as part of Operation Condor.
A lawyer familiar with the proceedings said Garzon will also formalize his request that Britain extradite Pinochet to Spain.
However, before it can be transmitted to British authorities, the extradition request must first be accepted by Spain's Ministry of Justice and then approved by Aznar and his cabinet.
Aznar, who is known to favor turning down the request, has given no clear indication yet of the outcome.

SANTIAGO, Chile _ Perhaps as a sign of how much Chileans wish to forget their years of polarized politics and repression under Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the immediate popular response here to the sensational news of his arrest in London has been remarkable for its moderation.
About 200 supporters of the retired dictator gathered at the residence of the British ambassador on Saturday evening to protest the arrest, some throwing fruit and eggs at the building.
Some demonstrators burned a British flag in front of the nearby residence of the Spanish ambassador before the police arrived in a truck with water cannon, at which point the protesters obediently withdrew.
Chilean television news repeatedly showed the same videotape of a leftist counterdemonstrator in heated discussions with the protesting Pinochet supporters before he was arrested and carried kicking and screaming into a police van.
But in a display of uncensored political debate that would have been unthinkable only a decade ago under the general's rule, television broadcasts also showed myriad reactions to the arrest from political figures ranging from Communist Party leaders to rightist retired generals.
Many Chileans still harbor bitter memories of Pinochet's dictatorial ways, including the deaths and disappearances of more than 3,000 people in the 17 years that followed his violent overthrow of the elected Socialist government of President Salvador Allende in 1973.
But most political analysts say a large majority wants to put the era of radical politics and repression behind it, a trend equally apparent in neighboring Argentina and Brazil, which also went through periods of rule by military juntas.
President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, in Portugal for a summit meeting of Iberian and Latin American leaders, charged that Britain was breaking international law, saying that Pinochet, now an unelected senator for life, carried a diplomatic passport giving him legal immunity.
Frei leads a governing coalition that includes Christian Democrats and Socialists, and his strong defense of the general's rights was only one of a string of similar comments from civilian politicians who have spent most of their political careers opposing Pinochet.
Only one presidential candidate in next year's elections expressed support for the Spanish and British actions, and that was Gladys Marin of the Communist Party.
``I couldn't be more happy,'' she told local television.
``This government has been unwilling to bring this genocidal criminal to justice over the last eight years, so it is up to the Spanish to do it.''
The leading leftist candidate, Ricardo Lagos of the Socialist Party, was far more cautious.
Lagos gently scolded Pinochet for not anticipating his arrest abroad but said he did want to get involved in a judicial matter.
Effectively, Lagos was walking a tight line in order to deflect conservatives' claims that his election would return Chile to the political and economic turbulence of Allende's abbreviated rule.
The two leading conservative candidates predictably criticized the arrest, and some rightist politicians urged the government to break relations with London in protest.
Supporters of Pinochet pledged to mobilize street demonstrations demanding his release, while the Communist Party and human rights groups promised marches supporting the British action and a possible Spanish prosecution for alleged crimes against humanity.
But Sunday was just another Sunday for most Chileans, who packed Santiago's parks on a splendidly sunny spring day.
A few lightly armed police officers directed traffic away from the British and Spanish embassies, and flimsy three-feet high wire fences were placed around the buildings.
Attempting to explain the calm, Mireya Garcia, secretary general of the Group of the Families of the Detained and Disappeared, said: ``After 25 years of absolute impunity for violators of human rights, it takes a while for the people to absorb this news and understand its importance and dimensions.''
<ANNOTATION> (STORY CAN END HERE.
OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.)
</ANNOTATION> For all the normalcy, the arrest of Pinochet opened a revealing window into a new Chilean society, one run by democratically elected civilians side-by-side with a still influential military.
President Fidel Castro of Cuba, who for years was portrayed as the devil incarnate in the Chilean media, was shown on television in a very human light, reacting to the arrest with confused amusement.
News clips of Chilean exiles celebrating the arrest received prominent play.
Their shouts of ``murderer'' and posters of the former dictator bearing the word ``Wanted'' were broadcast on the same show that included an interview with Augusto Pinochet Hiriart, Pinochet's son.
``Countries have lost wars and committed real genocide,'' he said, ``but that is not what happened here.''

WASHINGTON _ The arrest of Gen. Augusto Pinochet shows the growing significance of international human-rights law, suggesting that officials accused of atrocities have fewer places to hide these days, even if they are carrying diplomatic passports, legal scholars say.
Pinochet, who ruled Chile as a military dictator from 1973 to 1990, was granted amnesty in his homeland but was arrested on Friday in London at the request of Spanish authorities, who want him extradited to Spain.
A growing body of international law has in the last 10 years made it somewhat easier to reach across borders and apprehend suspects accused of torture, genocide and other ``crimes against humanity.''
A lawyer in Washington who represents victims of the Pinochet administration, Samuel Buffone, said, ``What is really innovative and important here is that a Spanish court is looking at international acts of terrorism, systemic human-rights abuses and genocide, and is asserting jurisdiction on that basis.''
The Spanish authorities contend that Pinochet may have committed crimes against Spanish citizens in Chile.
They said the European Convention on Terrorism and other treaties required Britain to extradite Pinochet.
``The lesson here is that terrorists will have no safe haven and are the modern-day equivalent of pirates,'' Buffone said.
``Anywhere they are found on the high seas they will be nabbed and prosecuted.''
Thomas Buergenthal, a professor of international law at George Washington University here, expressed doubts that Pinochet was entitled to diplomatic immunity, even though he has a diplomatic passport.
``The fact that he wasn't accredited to Britain and was not in transit to a diplomatic post,'' Buergenthal said, ``means that Britain doesn't have to give him diplomatic immunity, unless there was some prior arrangement to do so.''
The case raises many complex legal questions.
For example, does Pinochet have any immunity because of his status as a former head of state or because of his current status as a ``senator for life'' in Chile?
Chile granted him amnesty, but are other countries required to honor that amnesty?
Could Spain try Pinochet for his actions in Chile?
Under the Chilean Constitution, adopted while he was in power, Pinochet is immune from prosecution there.
Professor Lori Damrosch, an expert on international law at Columbia University, said: ``That doesn't carry any weight outside Chile.
It's not binding on any other country.
All these ex-dictators must have an understanding that they are somewhat at risk when they leave their own countries.''
The ``personal inviolability'' of diplomats is a venerable privilege that can be traced from the protection accorded to wartime emissaries in ancient Greece.
The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 says, ``The purpose of such privileges and immunities is not to benefit individuals, but to ensure the efficient performance of the functions of diplomatic missions.''
Thus, legal scholars say, diplomatic immunity was not created to insulate people against prosecution for crimes against humanity or other atrocities.
In recent years courts have shown an increased willingness to try criminal and civil cases involving contentions that foreigners committed torture, genocide or war crimes.
<ANNOTATION> (STORY CAN END HERE _ OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) </ANNOTATION> Professor Michael Reisman of Yale said: ``In the past a head of state would have been given broad immunity for acts committed while he was head of state.
But international law has moved steadily in the direction of assigning personal responsibility to such officials for grave violations of human rights or the law of war.''
Spain's contention that it has the authority to interrogate and try Pinochet is similar to the United States' argument that it can try hijackers and terrorists for crimes committed against American citizens abroad.
Professor Jonathan Charney of the Vanderbilt Law School, editor of The American Journal of International Law, noted that Pinochet is accused of genocide, torture, and cruel and unusual punishment.
``These are considered universal crimes,'' he said.